Carl: At first it's hard.
When you get your first dog,
it takes a long time to learn
to put your trust in a dog
to potentially save my life.
[music plays]
Fatou: The first time I started
using my cane, it was awkward.
It felt weird having people staring at me.
Rosanna: Cane travel sucks.
[laughter]
Greg: At night I would bump
into everything and everybody
and people would get mad at me,
and I am like, you know?
But now having the cane,
it's like parting the Red Sea.
Everybody gets out of my way as I'm
walking down the street with my cane.
Lydia: If you're a seasoned user,
you can feel where you are in space
and give you clues
about where you need to go.
[music plays]
Linda: My dog saved my life.
I wouldn't be here talking to you
right now because he would have killed me.
He was flying.
Korrine: It's not a pet. It's
not just a regular dog.
They're held to really high
standards to keep us safe.
And they have a job to do.
Brian: You have to 100% trust that the dog
is not gonna run you into a wall.
And believe it or not,
they probably will run you
into a wall once or twice.
[music plays]
Brian: I'm Brian Switzer.
Carl: My name is Carl Richardson.
Fatou: My name is Fatou Sankanu.
Korrine: My name's Korrine Herlth.
Greg: Gregory Samuels.
Lydia: Lydia Olmstead.
Rebecca: I’m Rebecca Alexander.
Kerry: My name is Kerry Thompson.
No matter how much you ask people
no amount of preparing
really ever prepares you for it.
Carl: It's just an unbelievable feeling.
And the dogs even take pride in
their work when they do something right
they'll look at you like,
“I did that right, didn’t I?
Yeah, tell me I'm a good boy.”
You know
[laughter]
It's just an amazing feeling.
Linda> They guide you, they become part of you.
They give you self-esteem,
independence, confidence,
and you become a whole.
Yeah, you become whole.
[music ends]